.TH SHOVE 1 2020-12-28 shove "User Commands"


.SH NAME

shove \- stow, but angrier


.SH SYNOPSIS

\fBshove\fR [\fIFLAGS\fR]... [\fIOPTIONS\fR]...


.SH DESCRIPTION

Shove is a file management program similar to GNU Stow, although Shove is
designed primarily to manage configuration files. The management happens by
removing and installing symbolic links and directories in target paths.

The \fB\-\-paths\fR option defines both source and target paths that are
required to install or uninstall files. The installation has two steps. The
first step is to try to remove files from the target tree that are also present
in the source tree. The \fB\-\-rage\fR flag controls what kind of files Shove
is able to remove. The second step is to try to install files from the source
tree to the target tree. If the file to be installed is a directory, the
installation method may vary according with the \fB\-\-tree\fR flag and the
\fB\-\-depth\fR option. If the \fB\-\-unshove\fR flag was specified, the second
step will be skipped, resulting in no files being installed.


.SH FLAGS

.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-absolute
By default, created symbolic links are relative. This flag makes them absolute
instead.

.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
This flag causes Shove to print the help message and exit.

.TP
.BR \-k ", " \-\-keep\-going
By default, when any error occurs, Shove exits with an appropriate exit status.
This flag causes Shove to keep running when a non-critical error occurs.

.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-no
By default, Shove will attempt to make changes to the filesystem. This flag
prevents Shove from changing the filesystem. Every time a change is prevented
in this way, an information level message is printed.

.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-rage
This flag is cumulative and the number of occurrences of this flag will affect
the behavior of removing files in the target tree. With 0 or more occurrences,
Shove is able to remove matched symbolic links. With 1 or more occurrences,
Shove is able to remove unmatched symbolic links. With 2 or more occurrences,
Shove is able to remove files and empty directories. With 3 or more
occurrences, Shove is able to remove non-empty directories.

.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-tree
By default, if a file is present in the source tree, it will be installed by
creating in the target tree a symbolic link to that file. If the source file is
a directory, this flag causes Shove to install it by creating a directory with
the same name in the same path relative to the root in the target tree. All
children of the source directory will be installed. This flag overlaps the
\fB\-\-depth\fR option.

.TP
.BR \-u ", " \-\-unshove
During the installation of a file, Shove will attempt to remove the preexistent
one present in the target tree that is also present in the source tree. After
this, by default, the file will be then finally installed. With this flag
enabled, no files will be installed after the remotion.

.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
This flag is cumulative and the number of occurrences of this flag will affect
the maximum logging level. With 0 or more occurrences, the \fBCRITICAL\fR and
\fBERROR\fR levels will be printed. With 1 or more occurrences, the \fBWARN\fR
level will be printed. With 2 or more occurrences, the \fBINFO\fR level will be
printed. With 3 or more occurrences, the \fBDEBUG\fR level will be printed.


.SH OPTIONS

.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-depth\fR \fIlevel\fR
Specify the nesting level limit to treat directories as the same way the
\fB\-\-tree\fR flag does. The depth level is 1 by default.

.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-ignore\fR \fIregex\fR...
Specify one or more Perl compatible regular expression. If a name of a file in
the source tree matches with any regular expression defined this way, that file
will not be installed or uninstalled.

.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-paths\fR \fIsrc\fR \fIdest\fR
This option takes two arguments, the first is the source path and the second is
the target path. The source path is the path to the source file to be installed
and therefore must exist. The target path is the path where the source file
will be installed and therefore can not be the same as the source path. This
option may be specified multiple times. If this option is not present, Shove
will finish with a message informing it.


.SH EXIT STATUS

.TP
0
If no error was occurred.

.TP
1
If a non-critical error was occurred.

.TP
2
If a critical error was occurred.


.SH FILES

.TP
.B .shoveignore
This file may be placed in any branch in the source tree. Each line of this
file must contain a Perl compatible regular expression. If a regular expression
defined in \fB.shoveignore\fR matches against a name of any file inside the
same directory of the \fB.shoveignore\fR file, the file with that name will not
be installed.


.SH SEE ALSO

.BR ln (1)
.BR stow (1)
